---
layout: post
title:  "5. IT Technology"
date:   2021-08-17 05:59:00 +0700
categories: jekyll update
---
# IT Technologies

The two areas that are most relevant to my project are Natural language processing and Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning.

## Natural Language Processing (NLP)

Natural Language Processing is the study of interaction between computer and human language, notably to process natural language data. Natural language processing final goal is for the computers to have an “comprehension” of human languages with its nuances. Comprehension here means that computer can extract the meaning out of texts like a we as humans could. Currently, usage of NLP is widespread and could be seen in every aspect of life. When you wake up, you might ask a virtual assistance for your schedule that day. This task is a combination of Speech recognition, speech synthesis, and Question answering. When you search up a name on Google, for example “John Major”, and the result returned is about John Major the British prime minister instead of a Major named John or a John who majored in some subject, this is called lexical semantics or understanding of individual words in a context. When you drive out of your house and your license plate is recognized at a toll booth, it is Ocular Character Recognition. When you use an online translation service to translate some text, that is machine translation. These are just some of the more notable advances and usage of the field of NLP. There are also some notable advances in NLP that are less publicly known. One of such advancement is in the field of natural language generation. This is notably used to generate textual report from a data set, for example a weather forecast, a business report, or a chat bot. Multiple NLP disciplines has been used in combination to create a Dialogue management system or a system intended to hold conversation with humans. One of its implementations is with Google Voice where this system can make reservation over telephone in place of a human. Currently and in the near future, advancement of NLP is closely tied with artificial intelligence and machine learning as the pattern matching ability that AI and ML offers enable is perfect for a wide amount of NLP task where pattern recognition and matching is the core of the problem. Future advancement therefore will also be tied to AI and ML. One of such advancement will be the speech tonal stress reconstruction. Systems in the future will be able to generate speech that more closely resemble such of human by replicating the stress and syntax that human makes. Cloud computing is another enabler for advancement in natural language processing as the processing power needed in certain NLP application can be provided over the internet. This allowed the application platform for NLP to extend beyond large desktop or mainframe and go to every networked device. This includes virtual assistant which can appear in small device such as smart speakers, smart camera that can read license plate, and many more that utilized cloud computing to put NLP application everywhere. 

NLP had and will change our life greatly. In many fields, we can already see NLP in some part being applied in different forms. It could be an application of Ocular character recognition to transcribe text, or it could simply be a spam filter for emails. In the future, we will see even more application of NLP being used daily. NLP has already replaced human jobs. The most notable is with help desk and customer support jobs. These are occupations that is being and is highly likely to be replaced by NLP application such as chatbots and voice assistant. These occupations are the perfect use cases for NLP application. On the other hand, for NLP application to spread, we will need more NLP applications developers.
Personally, I do not think that NLP will affect myself, my family or anyone that I know of in a significant way. Although I and quite a few people I know have been in contact with many applications of NLP, these interactions have not been too influential on my life. I think certainly NLP had, have, and will make much of my everyday life faster. However, NLP has not changed drastically how I lived.

## Artificial Intelligence / Machine Learning:

Artificial intelligence refers to “intelligence” being displayed by machine as opposed to natural intelligence displayed by humans and animals. Machine learning is a subset of AI which studies computer algorithm that can improve on its own through “learning” and the processing of data. Nowadays, as development of the two subjects mentioned here are well interconnected, the two terms AI and ML are often mistakenly used interchangeably but it is to be noted that these are two, while related but different subject. Here, I will discuss mostly about ML and AI in relation with ML since AI is a relatively basic concept that covers a great deal of subject from technical to philosophical and the depth of information is unfathomable. Machine learning can be divided into smaller subjects, each with an interesting state of the art development. For computer vision, Semantic segmentation is one of the notable tasks. Semantic segmentation is the analysis and understanding of an image into structure and component in the pixel level. This technique is used in self driving function for cars to analyze the image of the road to guide the car in conjunction with other sensors. Another notable task for machine learning is image classification. This is, from a given image, the model can classify an image into a category. Object detection is also another notable ML task where given an image, objects inside that image can be identified and classified. Many natural language processing tasks such as machine translation or language modeling are also machine learning tasks. In the future, there are many ways that machine learning can develop. One of such ways is with automated machine learning. Here, a machine learning model automatically select the appropriate algorithm for the dataset. This will allow even non-ML experts to deploy ML models and facilitate the usage of ML more widely. ML will also be applied in more sector than now. Healthcare is a subject where ML can be applied well as the dataset generated in healthcare are often massive and is hard to analyze with other data analysis technique. For example, disease prediction could be done by ML by analyzing a range of variables for each patient such as health history, demographics and other info. Machine learning can also help in the drugs development process by speeding up the testing process using models and help to reduce the costs. Self-driving vehicles is one of the prospective sectors in the future for machine learning. Even though ML is currently used in this sector intensively, problem arises when the models must deal with untrained condition. In the future, new algorithm and method may allow better extrapolation of the models used in self driving. The growth in AI and ML are enabled by the increasingly more powerful processing power in computer. Transistor counts on an average computer chip has increased by five million times from 1980 to now, with the corresponding increase in processing power. This allowed more complex models to be created and operated. Also, the increasing amount of data available that cannot be processed in traditional methods meant that new method must be developed, led to development in ML. 

Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning will change our life greatly, however, we will have to wait for that. AI have the potential to drive for innovation in many sectors. For the near future, I believe that AI and ML will not make redundant too many occupations. This is because, AI can only focus on one task only, one problem at a time, also known as specialized intelligence. Humans have general intelligence, therefore, are more flexible and can perform many tasks. Also, the data to train the AI are not perfect and may be subjected to biases that can affect the AI. 
